---
title: "Building Momentum"
date: 2020-10-16
draft: false
---

Backstory: I loved blogging back in my graduate school days, but only
around topics that weren't core to my work or identity. I'd blog about
LaTeX when my real job was metaphysics research. I wanted to blog
about tech pretty much as soon as I started my first job, but I've
been reluctant. Always too busy. Never anything to say.

I'm wondering if I can change that. And I'm hoping to do so by writing
a bunch of short, low-pressure posts aggregated in this one big
post. Maybe if all this stuff is framed as an experiment I'll
overthink it less!

## 2020-10-16

I'm changing jobs soon. Next Friday is my last day at my current job
and I start at a new place the following Monday. So this feels like
that time between Christmas and New Year's. Time for reflection. New
Year, New Me. That kind of thing.

In addition to taking stock, I'm doing a bit of reading. In _The
Unicorn Project_, a thing that has stuck out to me is the idea of a
developer journal or diary. I've seen the idea in a bunch of
places. (I want to say _The Pragmatic Programmer_ talks about keeping
a journal for tracking bugs, and I've read about the Lab Notebook idea
in at least a dozen places. And it seems like a good idea to me. But
it's never stuck.

I do write a bunch. I fill up a full-size 100-sheet spiral notebook
every three months or so. But I struggle to keep any continuity in
what I'm recording, and it's very rarely reflective. I use it for in
the moment notes in meetings or solving problems, and while I might
return to them, I never take a step back and sum things up or put
things in a format that might be useful going forward.

But when I've done something like this, I've found it's typically
pretty useful. It's hard to stick to or make a system of.  Part of the
problem there might be that I am trying to systematize it up front. So
maybe this time I'll try a different tack: set frequent check-ins
during the day and see what evolves out of that. Maybe that will give
me a little feedback loop so I can let something evolve.

## 2020-10-19

It’s a strange time at work as I’m winding down at one company and
preparing to start up at another. A consequence of this is that my
attempts at getting my head around how I document my work are not
going to be perfectly informative. But I think I can learn something,
and that’s better than nothing. Last workday I set a timer for 30
minutes and jotted down notes, etc. when it went off then reset the
timer. It worked okay. I didn’t really mind the interruption, and
remembering to restart the timer wasn’t super-onerous. I did find,
however, that 30 minutes felt too short. Though the interruption
wasn’t terrible, I did find that I didn’t get many tasks completed in
one session, so there were lots of 'continued doing X' comments,
rather than 'wrapped up doing X'. It also felt a little more like time
tracking than I’d like. I’ve done the time tracking thing - not long
ago I was tracking my time in 15 minute increments - but that’s not
what I’m going for here. I want a higher level thing and not a
implementation-level view. So today I'm trying 1 hour timers to see if
that helps.
