---
title: "Cultivating"
date: 2020-01-03T06:18:00-05:00
draft: true
---

## The past

It has been ages since I had a blog. Back when I was a graduate
student I felt like I had something I could help teach the (academic
humanities) world about LaTeX, so I wrote a blog on the topic and an
educational guide. It was fun and some people seemed to find it
useful.

I have been meaning to write about programming ever since I started my
first programming job in 2012. Given my background in the humanities
(instead of computer science), I think it felt like something I had to
do to prove my worth as a programmer. So I felt pressure, and as a
result I shut down on this topic. I did write a few blog posts for my
company's blog, but they weren't deeply technical; instead they were
about the culture of the company and why I was happy working
there. While I liked the posts, I think that since they weren't about
technical topics they furthered my internal narrative (and worry) that
I didn't really have anything to write about and needed to get
established first. So I kept not writing, feeling bad about not
writing, and worrying that I wouldn't ever have anything to write
about.

## The present

I was wrong when I thought I need to become a technical expert to
start writing again. I like writing. It helps me solidify what I'm
learning and shape what I think. And sometimes (as I saw with that
LaTeX blog), the finished product is useful for others as well. What
is more, while I like technical topics, the kinds of blog posts and
books I enjoy the most are not the ones that focus on technical
details, but rather those on topics such as as how to think about
problems, how to improve your skills/career, or how to better work
with others. No big surprise there I suppose: the kinds of things I
have always been interested in writing are the things I'm interested
in reading now.

## The future

I'm going to write more and publish it here. I'm uncertain what that
will look like for me&mdash;my process will look like, how often
I'll post, exactly what I'll write about, how long I'll keep it going,
etc. But I'll figure all that out. I do know that while there might be
some technical stuff, my main interest isn't deeply technical and I
have no intention of trying to make my blog deeply technical.

In my free time right now I'm interested in fermentation&mdash;yogurt,
sourdough, kombucha, etc. I like the experimental nature of
fermentation. There are some basic processes and guardrails, but
within those bounds you can try things and see what happens. There is
lots of waiting patiently, watching, and seeing what happens. Maybe
the result is garbage. Maybe it's great. That part doesn't really
matter to me. What matters is that if you watch and wait, at least two
things will happen: your project will change an you will learn. And so
that's how I'm approaching this blog: watching, waiting, letting
things develop, and&mdash;regardless of the outcome&mdash;learning.
